## Genome assembly reference-based benchmarking container

  * Version:    0.8.1
  * Maintainer: Peter Belmann <pbelmann@cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de>

### Outline

This specification describes the interface for containerised software to
evaluate a genome assembly in FASTQ format using a reference genome sequence in
FASTQ format. Genome assemblers vary in efficacy and the quality of an assembly
may be evaluated by comparing it to a higher quality reference of the same
genome. In addition to the specifications described below, this container MUST
implement all specifications defined in ['Generic bioinformatics container'](https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/rfc.mkd#generic-bioinformatics-container).

### Inputs

* **CONT_CONTIGS_FILE**: This variable MUST be present in the container
  environment. This specifies the absolute path of where the file containing
  the genome assembly contigs can be found. The contigs file MUST be in FASTA
  format.

* **CONT_REFERENCE_FILE**: This variable MUST be present in the container
  environment. This variable MUST specify the absolute path of the file
  containing a FASTA formatted reference sequence from the same origin as the
  **CONTIGS_FILE** contigs.

* **CONT_OUTPUT_DIR**: This variable MUST be present in the container
  environment. This variable specifies the absolute path of where the directories/files MUST
  be created containing the metrics describing the reference genome assembly.

### Outputs

The container MUST generate files of metrics in the directory **$CONT_OUTPUT_DIR**
from evaluating the quality of the assembly in the file **$CONT_CONTIGS_FILE**
using the reference sequence in the file **$CONT_REFERENCE_FILE**.
