## Short-read processor

  * Version:    0.1.0
  * Maintainer: Michael Barton <mail@michaelbarton.me.uk>
  * Validator:  FIXME
  * Example:    FIXME

### Outline

This specification describes the interface for a short-read processor. This
takes one FASTQ file of Illumina short reads and outputs one FASTQ file of
short reads after they have been processed in some way. The types of processing
may include normalisation, filtering a subset of reads, or trimming bases from
the reads.

In addition to the specifications described below, this container MUST
implement the specifications defined in 'Generic bioinformatics container'.

### Inputs

* **CONT_FASTQ_FILE**: This variable MAY be present in the container
  environment. If used this variable MUST specify the absolute path, inside the
  container, of a gzipped FASTQ read file.

* **CONT_PAIRED_FASTQ_FILE**: This variable MAY be present in the container
  environment. If used this variable MUST specify the absolute path, inside the
  container, of a gzipped PAIRED FASTQ read file.

* **OUTPUT_READ_FILE**: This variable MUST be present in the container
  environment. This specifies the absolute path of where the file containing
  the processed reads MUST be created. The created contigs file MUST be in
  FASTQ format.

**Note!** At most, only one of the variables **CONT_FASTQ_FILE** or
**CONT_PAIRED_FASTQ_FILE** MUST be present in the container environment. The
container MUST use enronment variable present to process the reads.

### Outputs

The container MUST generate a FASTQ file of reads in the location
**$OUTPUT_READ_FILE**.
