##The Binning Output Format 

###Version:0.8 

### 1.The binning format specification

The binning format was specified for this competition and is intended to serve as a standard format for (taxonomic) binning methods. It is a TAB-delimited text format consisting of a header section and an output section. The header must be prior the output. Header lines start with '@' or '#' for comments, while output lines do not.

Each output line has 2 mandatory fields: The SEQUENCEID and either TAXID or BINID.


### 1.2 The header section

The header section may contain comment lines, which begin with the character '#'.
@sampleId
The last line in the header section begins with '@@' and includes tab-separated column tags, where TAG is a variable string that defined the content and format for the output section. The order of the columns is not important.
This line should match: /^\@\@[A-Za-z0-9]+(\t[A-Za-z0-9\_\s]+)+/ For instance:

The following lists all defined tags. 

SEQUENCEID
BINID
TAXID

Further optional columns can be appended to the right.

@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID 
or
@@SEQUENCEID	BINID
or
@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	BINID
or
@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	BINID	SCORE	MYCOLUMN2	MYCOLUMN3
The last line is always the header for the output section and begins with '@@'. It defines the content of the output columns in a tab-separated format. The mandatory tags are described in the output section below. Further optional columns with alphanumeric header tags can be appended to the right.

### 1.3 The Output section

Each output line should match: /^[A-Za-z0-9]+(\t[A-Za-z0-9]+(\.[0-9]+)?)+/
SEQUENCEID specifies the ID of either a read or a contig sequence

(depending on the sample). 

The TAXID is a taxonomic assignment for your binned sequences (according to the provided taxonomy version from the download site) and will be used for evaluation of your predictions with taxonomy-based  measures.

The BINID entries can be arbitrary alphanumeric identifiers for the bins. No taxonomy-based evaluation will be performed using the entries in this column.

There are three different scenarios for binning tools.

The first case, example A below: If you create taxonomic bins as output without further resolution, you do not need to include the BINID colummn, but only the TAXID column, in your output.

The second case, example B below: If you create bins that do not include taxonomic assignments you do not need to include the TAXID column, but only the BINID column, in your output.


The third case, example C below, is if you perform taxonomic binning and additionally resolve bins below existing taxonomic IDs, e.g. to define bins representing novel strains. In this case, you add both the TAXID. It will be easiest to check for consistency for us, if you in this case use for the BINID the TAXID entry and a numeric identifier appended (e.g. 562.2).

Further columns with additional information can be appended to the right.

### 1.4 EXAMPLES

1.4.A
```
#CAMI Format for Binning
@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	
read1201	123	
read1202	123	
read1203	131564	
read1204	562	
read1205	562	
```
1.4.B
```	
#CAMI Format for Binning
@@SEQUENCEID		BINID\n	
read1201	12346BIN
read1202	ANOTHERBIN	
read1203	BIN6
read1204	BIN5	
read1205	BIN5
```
1.4.C
```
#CAMI Format for Binning
@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	BINID

read1201	123	123
read1202	123	123
read1203	131564	131564
read1204	562	562.1
read1205	562	562.2
```
