## Taxonomic binning evaluation container

 * Version:    0.10.0
 * Maintainer: Peter Belmann <pbelmann@cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de>

### Contents


### Outline

This specification describes the interface for containerised binning evaluation applications. 
A binning evaluation application should validate the assigned TAXID
(https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/data-format/binning.mkd#the-binning-output-format) 
of a binning container.

In addition to the specifications described below, this container MUST implement the
specifications defined in ['Generic bioinformatics container'](https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/rfc.mkd#generic-bioinformatics-container). 


### Input

#### General Definition

A biobox requires an input YAML with the following definition 

```YAML
---
version: NUMBER.NUMBER.NUMBER
arguments:
  sequences:
    path: STRING
    id: STRING
    type: contig
    format: bioboxes.org:/fasta
  labels:
    path: STRING
    id: STRING
    type: binning
    format: bioboxes.org:/binning/binning:0.9/taxbinning
  predictions:
    path: STRING
    id: STRING
    type: binning
    format: bioboxes.org:/binning/binning:0.9/taxbinning
  databases:
    taxonomy:
      path: STRING
      id: STRING
      type: ncbi
      format: bioboxes.org:/taxonomy_ncbi_dumps
```

##### Description:

* **version**: The current version is specified directly under the heading.
* **arguments**: The arguments field consists of the following fields 
       * **sequences**: The input FASTA file for the binned sequences.
       * **labels**: The correct binning in bioboxes.org (taxonomic) binning format.
       * **predictions**: The predicted binning in bioboxes.org (taxonomic) binning format.
       * databases
         * **taxonomy**: The corresponding taxonomy in NCBI format.
       
##### Mounts:
 * Your output directory MUST be mounted to /bbx/mnt/output
 * Your input files MUST be mounted to /bbx/mnt/input
 * The .yaml MUST be placed as /bbx/mnt/input/biobox.yaml

##### File/folder object entries

```YAML
  path: STRING
  id: STRING
  type: String
  format: STRING
```

* `path` means absolute path to file in container
* `id` is a unique id for the file (optional)
* `type` specifies the semantic type (optional)
* `format` gives a machine-checkable type definition (will be transformed to YAML tag in future)

##### Formats
* `fasta`: FASTA file
* `bioboxes.org:/binning:0.9/taxbinning`: bioboxes.org binning file in version 0.9 with column TAXID
* `bioboxes.org:/taxonomy_ncbi_dumps`: A folder containing at least the NCBI taxonomy dump files names.dmp and nodes.dmp

### Output

The biobox produces on a successful run a `biobox.yaml` and can be found in the `bbx` directory in your mounted output directory. The output biobox.yaml must be in an evaluation specific [format](https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/data-format/evaluation.mkd).

