## Binning Output Format

  * Version:    0.10.0
  * Maintainer: Peter Belmann <pbelmann@cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de>
  * Authors: CAMI challenge organizers

### 1. Outline

The binning format was originally specified for the CAMI contest and is intended to serve as a standard format for (taxonomic) binning methods. 

It is a TAB (`\t`) delimited text format consisting of a header section and an
output section. The header section MUST be above the output section and header
lines MUST start with `@` whereas output lines MUST NOT. Comment lines MUST
start with `#` and MAY occur both in the header and output section. Empty lines
MAY occur anywhere in the output for better readability. Only the UNIX newline
character `\n` MUST be used to define the end of a line and the text MUST be
valid UTF-8 encoding.

Files containing this data format should be named with the filename suffix `.binning`.

Regular expressions, when provided, are given as specified in IEEE Std 1003.1™ ERE.

### 2. Header section

Each header line MUST begin with the character `@`. A single `@` defines a
key-value pair in the format **TAG:VALUE** where **TAG** MUST be an
alphanumeric string. Tags are case insensitive but MAY be specified using upper
and lower case letters for better readability. All tags MUST be unique per file.
 **VALUE** MUST NOT contain characters other than alphanumerical and `,.;_-|`.
More precisely, each non-empty and non-comment header line except for the last
header line MUST match the regular expression `^\@(_[A-Za-z]*_)?[A-Za-z]+[A-Za-z0-9]*\:[A-Za-z0-9,\.;_\|]*$`

The specification requires that the following header tags MUST be present:

  * **VERSION**: **VALUE** MUST specify the profiling format version in the heading
  of this specification and MUST match the regular expression `[0-9\.]`.

  * **SAMPLEID**: **VALUE** is the sample identifier, not the generating user or program name. It MUST match the regular  expression `[A-Za-z0-9\._]+`.

The following tags MAY be given:

  * **TAXONOMYID**: **VALUE** specifies an identifier of the external taxonomy
  which was used in the output section. **TAXID** values MUST be valid
  taxon identifiers in this taxonomy.

Additional tags and values MAY be specified but each additional tag MUST be
prefixed by a case-insensitive string with an underscore before and after the string,
e.g. `_CUSTOM_`, to avoid collisions when this specification is extended in the future.
Empty prefixes MAY be used and mean that the tag starts with `__`.

The last header line MUST begin with `@@` and defines TAB-separated column tags,
where each **TAG** MUST be a string matching the regular expression
`[A-Za-z]+[A-Za-z0-9]*` and defines the content and format of values in the
corresponding column of the output section. The following lists all defined tags:

  * **SEQUENCEID**
  * **BINID**
  * **TAXID**

The format requires that **SEQUENCEID** and at least one of **BINID** and **TAXID** MUST be given.
Further optional columns can be appended to the right but MUST be 
prefixed by a case-insensitive string with an underscore before and after the string,
e.g. `_CUSTOM_`, to avoid collisions when this specification is extended in the future.
Empty prefixes MAY be used and mean that the tag starts with `__`. This means that each
custom field MUST match the regular expression `_[A-Za-z]*_[A-Za-z]+[A-Za-z0-9]*`.

For instance:

    @@SEQUENCEID	TAXID

or

    @@SEQUENCEID	BINID
or

    @@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	BINID

or

    @@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	BINID	__SCORE	_MY_COLUMN2	_MY_COLUMN3

### 3. Output section

An output line MUST consist of TAB-separated fields and MUST correspond to
the last header line definition. Each field MUST match the regular expression
`[A-Za-z0-9,\.;,\(\)_\-\ ]*`. This specification defines the following field types:

  * **SEQUENCEID** specifies the ID of either a read or a contig sequence (depending on
    the sample).

  * The **TAXID** field contains a taxonomic assignment for binned sequences corresponding to a taxonomy which should be refered to by the header tag **TaxonomyVersion**. Each individual field MUST match the
regular expression `[A-Za-z0-9\.;,\(\)_\-\ ]+`.

  * The **BINID** fields MUST be arbitrary alphanumeric identifiers for each bin.

### 4. Multi-sample format

Starting with version `0.10.0`, multiple samples MAY be represented in a single file by concatenation.
Sample sections MUST be separated by at least one empty line after the last content line of a section
and preceding the next header line. Additionally, a multi-sample file MUST specify the exact same
**VERSION** tag value in every section. It MUST also specify the exact same **TAXONOMYID** tag value,
if this tag is specified in at least one of the sections. The type and order of column tags MUST be
identical for all sections. The **SAMPLEID** tag values must be unique for all concatenated sections.
The meaning of the **BINID** tag values is local for each section, for instance, `BIN1` would have a
different meaning in each section so that sequences from different samples can only be grouped into
the same bin if they are pooled and reported in a joint section.

### 5. EXAMPLES

There are three different scenarios for binning tools.

The first case, example A below: If you create taxonomic bins as output without
further resolution, you do not need to include the **BINID** colummn, but only the
**TAXID** column, in your output.

The second case, example B below: If you create bins that do not include
taxonomic assignments you do not need to include the **TAXID** column, but only the
**BINID** column, in your output.

The third case, example C below, is if you perform taxonomic binning and
additionally resolve bins below existing taxonomic IDs, e.g. to define bins
representing novel strains. In this case, you add both the **TAXID** and **BINID**.

A
```
# This is the bioboxes.org binning output format at
# https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/tree/master/data-format

@Version:0.10.0
@SampleID:mysample1
@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID
read1201	123
read1202	123
read1203	131564
read1204	562
read1205	562
```
B
```
# This is the bioboxes.org binning output format at
# https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/tree/master/data-format

@Version:0.10.0
@SampleID:mysample1
@@SEQUENCEID		BINID
contig01	12346BIN
contig02	ANOTHERBIN
contig03	BIN6
contig04	BIN5
contig05	BIN5
```
C
```
# This is the bioboxes.org binning output format at
# https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/tree/master/data-format

@Version:0.10.0
@SampleID:mysample1
@@SEQUENCEID	TAXID	BINID
contig01	123	123
contig02	123	123
contig03	131564	131564
contig04	562	562.1
contig05	562	562.2
```
D
```
# This is the bioboxes.org binning output format at
# https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/tree/master/data-format

@Version:0.10.0
@SampleID:mysample_A
@@SEQUENCEID		BINID
contig_A_01	BIN_A_1
contig_A_02	BIN_A_2
contig_A_03	BIN_A_1

@Version:0.10.0
@SampleID:mysample_B
@@SEQUENCEID		BINID
contig_B_01	BIN_B_1
contig_B_02	BIN_B_1
contig_B_03	BIN_B_2
```

