## Profiling Output Format 

  * Version:    0.9.1
  * Maintainer: Johannes Dröge <johannes.droege@uni-duesseldorf.de>
  * Authors:    Alice C. McHardy <alice.mchardy@helmholtz-hzi.de>,  David Koslicki <david.koslicki@math.oregonstate.edu>, Johannes Dröge <johannes.droege@uni-duesseldorf.de>, Peter Belmann <pbelmann@cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de>, Stephan Majda <stephan.majda@uni-duesseldorf.de>

###1. Outline

The taxonomic profiling format was originally specified for the CAMI contest
and is intended to serve as a working standard format for the output of
taxonomic profiling methods.

It is a TAB (`\t`) delimited text format consisting of a header section and an
output section. The header section MUST be above the output section and header
lines MUST start with `@` whereas output lines MUST NOT. Comment lines MUST
start with `#` and MAY occur both in the header and output section. Empty lines
MAY occur anywhere in the output for better readability. Only the UNIX newline
character `\n` MUST be used to define the end of a line and the text MUST be
valid UTF-8 encoding.

Files containing this data format should be named with the filename suffix `.profile`.

Regular expressions, when provided, are given as specified in IEEE Std 1003.1™ ERE.

###2. Header section

Each header line MUST begin with the character `@`. A single `@` defines a
key-value pair in the format **TAG:VALUE** where **TAG** MUST be an
alphanumeric string. Tags are case insensitive but MAY be specified using upper
and lower case letters for better readability. All tags MUST be unique per file.
 **VALUE** MUST NOT contain characters other than alphanumerical and `,.;_-|`.
More precisely, each non-empty and non-comment header line except for the last
header line MUST match the regular expression `^\@([A-Za-z]*_)?[A-Za-z]+[A-Za-z0-9]*\:[A-Za-z0-9,\.;_\|]*$`

The specification requires that the following header tags MUST be present:

  * **SAMPLEID**: **VALUE** is the sample identifier, not the generating user or
  program name. It MUST match the regular expression `[A-Za-z0-9\._]+` and should
  be unique for the set of relevant samples.
  * **VERSION**: **VALUE** MUST specify the profiling format version in the heading
  of this specification and MUST match the regular expression `[0-9\.]`
  * **RANKS**: **VALUE** MUST specify a list of allowed ranks for the
  taxa in the output section and ranks MUST be given in increasing order of their
  distance from the taxonomy root. Each rank MUST be case-insensitive alphanumerical
  string and each such entry MUST be separated from the previous entry by the '|'
  character. Therefore, **VALUE** MUST match the regular expression `[A-Za-z]+(\|[A-Za-z]+)*`
  For example, considering the major ranks in the NCBI taxonomy, VALUE could be
  specified as `superkingdom|phylum|class|order|family|genus|species`.

The following tags MAY be given:

  * **TAXONOMYID**: **VALUE** specifies an identifier of the external taxonomy
  which was used in the output section. **TAXID** values should be valid
  taxon identifiers in this taxonomy.
  
Additional tags and values MAY be specified but each additional tag MUST be
prefixed by a case-insensitive string, e.g. `CUSTOM_`, to avoid collisions when
this specification is extended in the future.

The last header line MUST begin with `@@` and defines TAB-separated column tags,
where each **TAG** MUST be a string matching the regular expression
`[A-Za-z]+[A-Za-z0-9]*` and defines the content and format of values in the
corresponding column of the output section. Tags are considered case-insensitive
but MAY be specified using upper and lower case letters for better readability.
The tags MUST be unique in this line. The leading tags and their corresponding
order MUST be

  * **TAXID**
  * **RANK**
  * **TAXPATH**
  * **PERCENTAGE**

except that **TAXPATH** MAY be followed by the optional tag **TAXPATHSN**.

Additional columns MAY be appended to the right after **PERCENTAGE** but MUST be
prefixed by a case-insensitive string, e.g. `CUSTOM_`. This means that each
custom field MUST match the regular expression `[A-Za-z]*_[A-Za-z]+[A-Za-z0-9]*`

The last header line MUST match the regular expression `^\@\@[Tt][Aa][Xx][Ii][Dd]\t[Rr][Aa][Nn][Kk]\t[Tt][Aa][Xx][Pp][Aa][Tt][Hh]\t([Tt][Aa][Xx][Pp][Aa][Tt][Hh][Ss][Nn]\t)?[Pp][Ee][Rr][Cc][Ee][Nn][Tt][Aa][Gg][Ee](\t([A-Za-z]*_[A-Za-z0-9]+)*$`

For instance:

    @@TAXID	RANK	TAXPATH	PERCENTAGE

or

    @@TAXID	RANK	TAXPATH	TAXPATHSN	PERCENTAGE

###3. Output section

An output line MUST consist of TAB-separated fields and MUST correspond to
the last header line definition. Each field MUST match the regular expression
`[A-Za-z0-9,\.;,\(\)_\-\ ]*`. This specification defines the following field types:

**TAXID**: Fields MUST correspond to unique alphanumeric taxon identifiers,
for instance in the NCBI taxonomy. Each individual field MUST match the
regular expression `[A-Za-z0-9\.;,\(\)_\-\ ]+`

**RANK**: Fields are case-insensitive and MUST match one of the rank identifiers
which MUST be given in the header TAG **RANKS**. It specifies where the respective
taxon given by **TAXID**, **TAXPATH** or **TAXPATHSN** is located.

**PERCENTAGE**: Fields specify the relative genome abundance in terms of the
genome copy number for the respective TAXID in the overall sample. Note that this
is not identical to the relative abundance in terms of assigned base pairs.
The PERCENTAGE can be a real number between 0 and 100 but MUST NOT exceed 6 digits
after the decimal point, so it MUST matcht the regular expression
`[0-9]+(\.[0-9]{0,6})?`. The sum of percentages given for all taxa from the same
rank MUST NOT exceed 100, that is, if something is unassigned, this will be
reflected in a percentage of less than 100% being assigned.

**TAXPATH** and **TAXPATHSN**: Fields specify the path from the root of the
taxonomy to the respective taxon, where alphanumeric identifiers such as the
TAXIDs (**TAXPATH**) or plain taxonomic names (**TAXPATHSN**) for all taxa
which lie on this path are included. The path entries MUST be separated by a
single '|' character and MUST be specified at the ranks and using their
respective order as specified by the **RANKS** header tag. In particular, if
the taxonomic path lacks a specified rank, this field MUST be left empty and
would show as "||". Empty trailing taxon entries MAY be omitted and taxon
entries which are not specified by the **RANKS** tag MAY only be appended to
the right of a full path. Each **TAXPATH** and each and **TAXPATHSN** field MUST
match the regular expression `[A-Za-z0-9\.;,\(\)_\-\ ]+(\|[A-Za-z0-9\.;,\(\)_\-\ ]*)*`.

For instance:

    # Example for TAXPATHSN:
    Archaea|Thaumarchaeota|||Aigarchaeota archaeon JGI 0000001-A7

or

    # Example for TAXPATH:
    2157|651137|651142|1104572|1052838


###4. Example

    # Taxonomic Profiling Output
    @SampleID:SAMPLEID
    @Version:0.9.1
    @Ranks:superkingdom|phylum|class|order|family|genus|species
    @TaxonomyID:ncbi-taxonomy_DATE
    @@TAXID	RANK	TAXPATH	TAXPATHSN	PERCENTAGE
    2	superkingdom	2	Bacteria	98.81211
    2157	superkingdom	2157	Archaea	1.18789
    1239	phylum	2|1239	Bacteria|Firmicutes	59.75801
    1224	phylum	2|1224	Bacteria|Proteobacteria	18.94674
    28890	phylum	2157|28890	Archaea|Euryarchaeotes	1.18789
    91061	class	2|1239|91061	Bacteria|Firmicutes|Bacilli	59.75801
    28211	class	2|1224|28211	Bacteria|Proteobacteria|Alphaproteobacteria	18.94674
    183925	class	2157|28890|183925	Archaea|Euryarchaeotes|Methanobacteria	1.18789
    1385	order	2|1239|91061|1385	Bacteria|Firmicutes|Bacilli|Bacillales	59.75801
    356	order	2|1224|28211|356	Bacteria|Proteobacteria|Alphaproteobacteria|Rhizobacteria	10.52311
    204455	order	2|1224|28211|204455	Bacteria|Proteobacteria|Alphaproteobacteria|Rhodobacterales	8.42263
    2158	order	2157|28890|183925|2158	Archaea|Euryarchaeotes|Methanobacteria|Methanobacteriales	1.18789
