## Specifications of bioinformatics file formats

  * Version:    0.8.1
  * Maintainer: Michael Barton <mail@michaelbarton.me.uk>

### Outline

The purpose of this document is to describe the sequence FASTA/Q file formats
used in the Standards for Interoperable Bioinformatics Container Interfaces
(SIBCI) RFC. There is no formal definition for FASTA or FASTQ in the same way
there are RFC definitions for [JSON][json] and [CSV][csv]. Furthermore it is
beyond the scope of this document create a strict definition of either. Instead
the community definitions for these formats are included to clarify the terms
FASTQ or FASTA when used in other RFCs.

[json]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7159
[csv]: https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc4180

### FASTA

#### Introduction

The FASTA format is described in the [BLAST input description][blast]. This is
quoted directly.

[blast]: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/BLAST/blastcgihelp.shtml

> A sequence in FASTA format begins with a single-line description, followed by
> lines of sequence data. The description line (defline) is distinguished from
> the sequence data by a greater-than (">") symbol at the beginning. It is
> recommended that all lines of text be shorter than 80 characters in length.
>
> Blank lines are not allowed in the middle of FASTA input. Sequences are
> expected to be represented in the standard IUB/IUPAC amino acid and nucleic
> acid codes, with these exceptions: lower-case letters are accepted and are
> mapped into upper-case; a single hyphen or dash can be used to represent a gap
> of indeterminate length; and in amino acid sequences, U and * are acceptable
> letters.

#### Formal Grammar

A formal grammar for FASTA is described on [BioStar][biostar]. This is quoted
below as a specification of the FASTA format.

[biostar]: https://www.biostars.org/p/11254/#11255

    <file>     ::= <token> | <token> <file>
    <token>    ::= <ignore> | <seq>
    <ignore>   ::= <whitespace> | <comment> <newline>
    <seq>      ::= <header> <molecule> <newline>
    <header>   ::= ">" <arbitrary text> <newline>
    <molecule> ::= <mol-line> | <mol-line> <molecule>
    <mol-line> ::= <nucl-line> | <prot-line>
    <nucl-line>::= "^[ACGTURYKMSWBDHVNX-]+$"
    <prot-line>::= "^[ABCDEFGHIKLMNOPQRSTUVWYZX*-]+$"

#### Example

    >gi|129295|sp|P01013|OVAX_CHICK GENE X PROTEIN (OVALBUMIN-RELATED)
    QIKDLLVSSSTDLDTTLVLVNAIYFKGMWKTAFNAEDTREMPFHVTKQESKPVQMMCMNNSFNVATLPAE
    KMKILELPFASGDLSMLVLLPDEVSDLERIEKTINFEKLTEWTNPNTMEKRRVKVYLPQMKIEEKYNLTS
    VLMALGMTDLFIPSANLTGISSAESLKISQAVHGAFMELSEDGIEMAGSTGVIEDIKHSPESEQFRADHP
    FLFLIKHNPTNTIVYFGRYWSP

### FASTQ

#### Description

The FASTQ format is described in detail in the article ["The Sanger FASTQ file
format for sequences with quality scores, and the Solexa/Illumina FASTQ
variants"][1]. This definition will be used and quoted below. Importantly all
FASTQ MUST use the Phred+33 quality offset described in the final paragraph.

[1]: http://nar.oxfordjournals.org/content/38/6/1767

> There are four line types in the FASTQ format. First a ‘@’ title line which
> often holds just a record identifier. This is a free format field with no
> length limit—allowing arbitrary annotation or comments to be included, as in
> the example above where the NCBI have included an alternative ID and the
> sequence length. Some sequencing centers encode paired end read information
> here (alternatively two matched FASTQ files are often used).
>
> Second comes the sequence line(s), which as in the FASTA format can be line
> wrapped. Also like FASTA format, there is no explicit limitation on the
> characters expected, but restriction to the IUPAC single letter codes for
> (ambiguous) DNA or RNA is wise, and upper case is conventional. In some
> contexts, the use of lower or mixed case or the inclusion of a gap character
> may make sense. White space such as tabs or spaces is not permitted.
>
> Third, to signal the end of the sequence lines and the start of the quality
> string, comes the ‘+’ line. Originally this also included a full repeat of the
> title line text (as shown in the NCBI example above); however, by common usage
> and the MAQ tool convention, this is optional and the ‘+’ line can contain just
> this one character, reducing the file size significantly. The OBF tools follow
> this MAQ convention on output, and omit the optional repeated title text.
>
> Finally, comes quality line(s) which again can be wrapped. As discussed above,
> these use a subset of the ASCII printable characters (at most ASCII 33–126
> inclusive) with a simple offset mapping. Crucially, after concatenation
> (removing line breaks), the quality string must be equal in length to the
> sequence string.

#### Formal Grammar

[MAQ provides a formal grammar][2] to describe FASTQ. This definition is
provided below as a specification for FASTQ format.

    <fastq>   :=  <block>+
    <block>   :=  @<seqname>\n<seq>\n+[<seqname>]\n<qual>\n
    <seqname> :=  [A-Za-z0-9_.:-]+
    <seq>     :=  [A-Za-z\n\.~]+
    <qual>    :=  [!-~\n]+

[2]: http://maq.sourceforge.net/fastq.shtml

#### Example

    @EAS54_6_R1_2_1_413_324
    CCCTTCTTGTCTTCAGCGTTTCTCC
    +
    ;;3;;;;;;;;;;;;7;;;;;;;88
