## Genome assembly benchmarking container

  * Version:    0.9.0
  * Maintainer: Peter Belmann <pbelmann@cebitec.uni-bielefeld.de>

### Contents
* Outline
* Inputs
   * General Definition
      * Description
      * Mounts
   * fasta
   * fasta_dir
* Outputs
   * evaluation
* Signature
* Example

### Outline

This specification describes the interface for containerised software to
evaluate a genome assembly in FASTA format using optional multiple reference genome sequences in
FASTA format. Genome assemblers vary in efficiency and the quality of an assembly
may be evaluated by comparing it to a higher quality reference of the same
genome. In addition to the specifications described below, this container MUST
implement all specifications defined in ['Generic bioinformatics container'](https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/rfc.mkd#generic-bioinformatics-container).

### Inputs

#### General Definition

A biobox requires an input YAML that follows the below definition and is valid according to [this](https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/container/short-read-assembler/input_schema.yaml) schema. 

```YAML
---
version: NUMBER.NUMBER.NUMBER
arguments:
  - fasta: LIST
  - fasta_dir: STRING  
```

##### Description:
* **version**: The current version is specified directly under the heading.
* **arguments**: The arguments field consists out of the following fields 
       * fasta
       * fasta_dir
       
       You can find a definition for every field below this section.

##### Mounts:
 * The .yaml MUST be mounted to /bbx/input/biobox.yaml.
 * Your output directory MUST be mounted to /bbx/output.
 * Your input files MUST be mounted to /bbx/input. 


#### fasta definition:

```YAML
  value: STRING
  id: STRING or NUMBER
  type: contig or scaffold
```

##### Description:
* **value**: Path MUST begin with a slash ('/'), which points to gzipped FASTA file. This file has to be mounted to a path that is prefixed by `/bbx/input`.
* **id**: A unique id for every entry in the fasta list.
* **type**: Two options:
  * **contig**
  * **scaffold**

#### fasta_dir definition:

```YAML
  value: STRING
```

##### Description:
* **value**: This variable specifies the absolute path of the file containing a FASTA formatted reference sequence from the same origin as the fastas specified in the fasta entry.

### Outputs

The biobox produces on a successful run a `biobox.yaml` and can be found in the `bbx` directory in your mounted output directory. The output biobox.yaml must be in an evaluation specific [format](https://github.com/bioboxes/rfc/blob/master/data-format/evaluation.mkd).

##### Mounts:
 * If the directory `/bbx/metadata` is mounted then the following files should be placed inside the directory:
   * `log.txt` Logging information that is generated by the application inside the container.   

### Signature

Any biobox based assembler accepts at least one of the following signatures:

1. `[fasta A], [Maybe fasta_dir B] -> evaluation C`

where
   * `Maybe` indicates an optional value

### Example
This is an example biobox.yaml file:

```YAML
---
version: 0.9.0
arguments:
   - fasta:
        value: "/path/to/lib1"
        id: "pe_1"
        type: paired
   - fasta_dir: "/path/to/dir/with/references"
```
